(I) The "Strategic" Layer - solar system scale - You would be required to make critical decisions and manage your strategic resources. Different decisions might determine in what order you face enemies and the disposition of forces when you face off against each foe. It could also change mission type and structure, e.g. whether you face off against one enemy in a decisive engagement, or enemies ally with each other and the mission becomes a stealthy hit-and-run mission to strike a critical target (as just one example).

(II) The "Space" Layer - planetary/orbital scale - This would be turn-based ship combat. If we go with a harder SF take, we could have things like basic orbital mechanics and each ship might have four critical stats: (1) Power - The more weapons and propulsion you have, the greater the power draw. The less margin you have in your power budget, the greater the cost elsewhere (something like weapons are slower to recharge, propulsion is slower to accelerate, etc.). (2) Cooling - The more power you draw with weapons, propulsion, etc., the more heat you generate. (3) Delta-V - Better propulsion yields better acceleration, but you can kill crew if you accelerate too quickly, and as you edge closer to the speed of light, you get increased relativistic distortion that makes it harder to hit targets. (4) Mass - Different ship designs have different mass budgets, but mass vs. delta-v affects acceleration curves and maneuverability. We can have different power plant, propulsion, weapon (lasers, particle beams, mass drivers, missiles with different types of warheads, etc.), and defensive (plasma screens?) technologies.

(III) The "Surface" Layer - battlefield scale - At you break through space defenses, the object is to get to the planetary surface to take out critical targets that will cause the collapse of the planet's gestalt mind and free its inhabitants. Each engagement would have the player making critical decisions before the battle commences, which would change the tilt of the battle. The actual turn-based combat would be between a few "hero" units. Each planet would have its unique units.