Top-down multi-phase bullet-hell
Visual Style: chunky pixel sprites

You play as Mars, an AI "god" based on the eponymous planet.

Short-term gameplay: bullet-hell in Three phases (repeating):
space battle
ground battle
strategy

Medium-term gameplay:
You must defeat the other gods (bosses) of the other planets to free their people. Each planet has unique powerups and challenges.

Long-term gameplay:
Allow yourself to be defeated as well to stop the conflict. Repeated play-through can add modifiers (bosses re-spawn, units rebel faster, game-speed increases)

End Credits:
If you won, roll the lore of your playthrough.
If you lost, roll the lore of the unit that did the most damage to you, and the aftermath of your failure.


Color/planet : Ruler/god/boss : Aspect/mechanic
Red: Mars: War
Blue: Earth: Chaos
Green: Venus: Fecundity
Purple: Jupiter: Wisdom
Teal: Mercury: Travel
Yellow: Sun: vitality, conscious
White: Moon(s): emotion, sub-conscious
Black: Saturn: Order



Mars launches from an asteroid, navigates orbit to the red planet, wars on Red, Victory! One "unit" left. Now in:

Prep phase!
Walk over units to pick them up. Unattended units will build upgrades (dangerous to collect too many, as you will find out at the end) Units will collect upgrades after a short time, and then attack you. Action builds cities, each city takes one unit. Press action while on a city to launch the expedition. Color wheel destination selector (Mars astrological symbol pointer)? Transition to:

Ship phase!
Bullet hell. The more units you bring, the bigger and slower your ship is. Shoot down bullets? Some rulers are boss ships in this phase. Navigate to the planet to land (do not need to defeat ruler, but ground phase will be difficult) and reach the:

Ground phase!
Same as prep phase, except everything is trying to kill you. If you failed to defeat the ruler in orbit, you'll have to kill all the units. Otherwise, kill the ruler on the ground. If you already killed the ruler in orbit, you get a triumph? Once you clear this phase it's back to prep!

Those three are the medium-scale game-loop. Large-scale loop is to defeat all six rulers. Then allow the citizens to defeat you, which may be impossible if you've farmed too many upgrades? Fast forward, the people rebuild, re-develop, give rise to new rulers, and awaken another asteroid, or re-awake the moon (loop back to the beginning).




Planet specialties, unit capabilities, theming

Red: Mars: War
homing bullets, can shoot down projectiles

Blue: Earth: Chaos
randomly teleporting? Shoots bursts in a random direction

Green: Venus: Fecundity
units reproduce? bullets also reproduce?

Purple: Jupiter: Wisdom
can see all unit stats. Focuses down lowest health instead of attacking nearest.

Teal: Mercury: Travel
high movement speed, dash-through attack

Black: Saturn: Order
units leave walls behind them, snake/tron-cycle, fully encircle destroys?

Yellow: Sun: vitality, conscious
Health regen during space combat.



White: Moon(s) (asteroids): emotion, sub-conscious, cycles
There is no boss here. If you go here, you can pick up generic units that have all of your accumulated upgrades. In harder game modes, the bosses respawn at the asteroids after a while.





